---
layout: post
title: Recap 2021
---

# Hello

This year went so fast!. I don't feel I do anything much lol. However, this year we still get the effect from the pandemic, although we should not get much. Anyway, it is what it is. Let's get to the recap in my 2021

## Got promotion

So this year I got promoted to a senior level. More level, more responsibility I would say hahaha. Need to mentor new joiners. Made some decision in more important things and one of the difficult thing for me was interviewing someone to join the company. I was really stressful when I knew that I needed to do this. Because I didn't think that I was good enough to be able to interview someone or like judging someone if he/she is good or not. Nonetheless, it is a duty and sooner or later, I need to do it anyway. Thus, I prepared a lot for my first interview and the result was okay I though lol.

## Into the world of Mechanical keyboard

I've never thought that I would be in this mechanical keyboard. Initially, I really thought that it was just a keyboard. It would not give that much different feeling from normal keyboard. Until, I decided to buy it because of I saw many people bought and it was very cool. Each switch gave you each feeling.


## More on blockchain

I think this year is the year of blockchain. There were so many project created and so many people give attention to them. In fact, I've been in this world for 2 years but I haven't paid attention to it, just bought and sold. However, for this year, I started to take a deep dive on it. Learning what BTC is really, how it comfirms the transaction and so on. I also made application to contact with blockchain to do automatically compounding and application to check the price for crypto currencies I have owned. I'm looking forward to see what will happen to this in 2022

I think this is it. Seems I did a lot of think, didn't I? Anyway, I hope 2022 will be a good year for me and for you all who accidently come to read this note. 

### See ya