---
layout: post
title: Recap 2023
---

Hello!, it is this time again for every year. Time to recap what I have done so far in the last year. I feel like last year pass quite fast. Not sure if I'm really enjoy or something else lol. As always, I will summarize only 3 bullets point (Just lazy to do it more). Let'
s see what are those things.

# Almost going to be 3 ish years-old

Yeah, this year I'm going to be 30 years old. In the past, I really thought that if I was 30 years old, I will be very mature. In fact, I feel no different when I became 25 lol. My colleagues who are around my age also no different. Perhaps, it is good that we still feel young. However, body doesn't feel young. I start to hear my body like "please take care me better". Healthcheck's result isn't that good so I think it is the time to be serious on the health.

# Finally got a macbook

Yeah, again. Finnally, I bought a macbook air M2 version. After almost 7 years of using Linux as personel laptop. Back to 4 years ago. It is time to change the laptop. At that time, I used Dell latitude 7240. It was really nice laptop with 12.5 inch of screen, very easy to carry. I really wanted to buy macbook at time but I was also miss Linux if I changed to use macOS. So that, I decided to go with Lenovo thinkpad x1 with 2k screen. After I bought, I found out that 2k resolution of the screen has a problem with Linux. Actually, it was not because of the resolution but the size of the screen. It is 14 inch. Normally, you will need to scale in like 150% to be able to see things. However, Linux which hah Gnome desktop cannot do that. It could do 100% or 200% which was very small or very big. It was a bit nightmare but there was workaround by using font size adjusting. There was experimental feature to do fractional scale but it was horrible. I used this thinkpad almost 4 years and it was the time to change the laptop again. So I don't hesitate to get macOS this time. I'm missing Linux but happy with macOS.

# Keep reading and coding

It is the year that I start reading books which I used to hate it really. I hate it because I have to read it for the exam. However, this time, it is just reading for fun or just to konw something I want to know. It is very very much better feeling to books. Also for coding, I have my personal program which I implemented couple years ago. Still maintain it and implement some new features.

These are very breifly what is going on to me in 2023. See ya!
