---
layout: post
title: Recap 2025
---

# Hi,

First of all, I'd like to say Happy new year! You are very strong that you can survive till now. And today, it is time for every year that we are writing the recap what we encountered last year. Personally, it wasn't that good start because I was sick early last year hahaha. It was both feeling for this year, good and bad. Here is what I encountered

# 8 years of software engineer

It was very surprise that I have been working in this area for 8 years. Moreover, I am stil in the company that I was graduated. It looks like very long time but I didn't feel that long. I'd say this year I didn't learn much new thing on coding side. I did more on designing and presentation which I didn't like that much. In order to growth, this is inevitable. Although, I wasn't promoted but I was kind of learn a lot how should I prepare those things. Let's see next year if I can go through.

# AI is comming fast

In 2022, there was an company called **OpenAI** had launched product called **chatGPT** which is a AI-powered chatbot that can understand and generate human-like text responses through natural conversation. It was very hyped at that time and everyone started using it. I did try as well as was very surprise about it. However, I didn't think that it would be developed this fast. Just for 3 years, it was developed until lots of big company start using it with their business. I can't imagine that what is going to happen in the next few years.

I might be laid off because AI can code so well these days hahaha. However, I will try to focus on learning AI so that it can improve my productivity and still be able to be in this area.

# In chocolate chip, No! relationship heh

I have never thought that it will come true. Although, I started using dating app in 2024. I wasn't in any serious relationship. Somehow, I realized that finding serious relationship will be very tough. Because you don't know, even at least, the background of the one who you are talking with. Is she really single? lots of question coming through. Thus, I decided to stop using it and go back to the tradition way, friend of friend.

Acutally, I got to know her in 2023 but that time it is just a friend of friend. There was a trip at Christmas last year and somehow she joined the trip as well. While I was driving back to home. that is kind of the first time that we did talk more serious than just say hi and ask if she is doing well. I think that was the starting point that I am interesting in her. After that trip, we start dating. Many things happen both good and bad thing, kind of in situation a bit. But finally,
